# Mobile Sensors & Solution for Detecting Vehicle Drivers
## Sep 2018 – Dec 2018

## Worked as the team leader on four-month project (Mobile Sensors & Solution for Detecting Vehicle Drivers)

Reduction in road accident still remain a big challenge to current and future transportation system as the rate of road accident rise every year even with all the advancement of technology and initiative by the government.
With the advancement in technologies and sensor, detection and identification of the user has become a hot topic in research methods. Identification of the user is possible with the support of various research paper but most require a modification to the vehicle which make the method impractical because modification to a vehicle is slow and inefficient. However, some research papers have suggested the method of using the built-in sensors and features that are available on the smartphone. As the world is slowly become technologically advanced, mobile sensors are evolving continually and becoming better and accurate. Hereafter, it will only become more and more advanced and eventually play an important part in our daily life.
Thus, it has motivated us to produce a feasible solution and develop an Android Application called Driver Detection System that only use the sensor to distinguish the user and control and limit the functionalities of the smartphone based on the user to reduce the number of road accident caused by human factor such as the usage of smartphone while driving. Nowadays, modern mobile phones or smartphones are equipped with a variety of sensors such as accelerometer, proximity sensor and gyroscope that are able to capture and record information about users’ behaviours. The data can be captured and analysed to model the movement of the user and help in determining the driver. In addition, installing software on a smartphone is notably easier than installing software or modification on a vehicle

[Documentation](https://github.com/chuazhe/Mobile-Sensors-Solution-for-Detecting-Vehicle-Drivers/blob/master/Mobile%20Sensors%20%26%20Solution%20for%20Detecting%20Vehicle%20Drivers.pdf)
